has become erratic.
The prey's course
I will intercept to kill.
No.
Maintain distance.
His ship is damaged.
He's injured.
Let him bleed.
This prey is resilient.
We will lose the moment.
The way a creature
behaves
when it is wounded
its destruction.
is the key to
Maintain distance.
Direct hit.
Our hull armor is stable.
His weapons must
be weakening.
for an asteroid belt.
The prey is heading
Vector 168.9.
We are losing him.
He hasn't come
here to hide.
He's come to make
a final stand.
Tracking.
He's holding position
above an asteroid
and he's left his ship.
Follow him.
The prey is scattering
our sensors.
Impressive.
He counters our pursuit
to the final moment.
Compensating.
No. Disengage sensors.
For what reason?
I want to take him
with my own eyes.
Follow.
his attack.
I'll draw
his thoracic crest.
Prepare to target
( rocks clattering )
( growls )
( snarling )
( snarling shrieks )
A flawless kill.
"Please remain still so that
I can treat your injuries.
"Thank you.
"I'm sorry. Did that hurt?
"I'll try to be more careful.
"Thanks for being
a patient patient.
Have a pleasant afternoon."
This is absurd.
Not at all.
Keep going.
You're doing fine.
is not applicable
This vernacular
to my duties on Voyager.
We can tailor the vocabulary
to your specific situations
a little later.
sentiment that counts.
Right now, it's the
I don't see the relevance.
I created these exercises
three years ago
with the social graces.
to familiarize myself
them several times each day,
I found that if I repeated
almost second nature.
the words became
Let's continue.
"The workplace encounter."
Exercise two:
Kes used to help me
with this one.
Now I'll be the nurse.
You be the doctor.
( sighs )
"Please hand me
the hypospray."
"Of course, doctor,
immediately."
Looks at instrument."
"Thank you.
No, no. Don't read that part--
only the dialogue.
"Excuse me, Nurse.
"This is the wrong
hypospray.
Would you mind finding
the correct one?"
"Not at all."
"Thank you."
look lovely today?"
"Did I mention you
you're so charming."
"Oh, doctor,
is terminated.
This lesson
I know it's awkward.
For me, it was
even painful,
rewards well worth the effort.
but I think you'll find the
Rewards.
The ability
to put others at ease...
comfortable around you.
make them feel more
You're a lot like me when
I was first activated.
If I'd had a mentor,
things would have gone
a lot more smoothly.
share my wisdom,
I'm willing to
but, if you're not
interested... fine.
physiological maintenance.
I'll stick to your
I will examine
your data.
Oh, good.
Pay special attention
to Exercise 17:
"Bridge banter
for beginners."
Have a pleasant day.
Hmm?
Verify.
Monotanium hull plating,
dicyclic warp signature--
definitely Hirogen.
the vessel is
They're moving to intercept.
Evasive maneuvers?
our differences here and now.
No. We need to settle
full impulse.
Hard about,
Red Alert.
They're in visual range.
On screen.
JANEWAY:
Hail them.
No response.
They're closing.
50,000 kilometers...
forty-five...
forty...
Maintain course, Mr. Paris.
Curious.
charging weapons.
They are not
They're slowing, sir.
PARIS:
Life signs?
CHAKOTAY:
Only one.
TUVOK:
And it's erratic.
They've stopped,
Captain.
Their engines just
went off-line.
This could be a trap.
Harry, run a long-range scan.
Are there any other
Hirogen ships out there?
None.
transporter range.
Take us within
You intend to board
their ship.
Yes.
The Hirogen vessel is
a potential threat.
We should destroy it.
Seven, what you
call a threat,
I call an opportunity...
about this species--
to gain knowledge
maybe even show some compassion.
and in this case,
a wounded pilot over there.
There seems to be
Our experience with
the Hirogen indicates
that compassion would
not be reciprocated.
And all of my experience says
we've got to take
that chance anyway.
Commander.
JANEWAY:
Tuvok, Paris,
you're with me.
Looks like there
was a fight.
Search for the life signs.
( squeaking )
Commander.
I'm reading bones,
muscle tissue...
nine different species.
from at least
It's all being broken down
by some sort of enzyme.
Perhaps this is their method
of denaturating their prey.
Either that... or it's dinner.
( sighs )
Looks like somebody
lost their helmet.
( yells )
Commander.
any weapon residuals.
I'm not picking up
physically torn apart.
I'd say he was
( tricorder beeping )
I'm picking up
the life signs.
This way.
( wheezing )
Massive internal bleeding.
Let's get him
to Sick Bay.
from the ship's computer
The data we downloaded
navigational records.
included
Can you give us a map
of this region?
This is the Hirogen vessel's
flight path
over the past five years.
They've certainly covered
a lot of space.
This ship alone has visited
over 90 star systems
in the last year.
I analyzed some of their logs.
this is a hunting species.
From what I can tell,
skeletal remains
We saw the
from dozens of alien races
displayed like trophies.
There was also evidence
of their victims for food.
they may be using some
The entire culture
seems to be based
on the hunt--
social rituals, art,
religious beliefs.
They're nomadic.
Their existence is driven
by the pursuit of prey.
And it's carried them
across huge distances.
There is no evidence
of a home planet.
Their ships travel alone
or in small groups.
several will join forces
On occasion,
in a multipronged attack.
Like wolves.
How's our "wolf" in Sick Bay?
behind a level-5 force field.
Still unconscious...
TUVOK:
You were right, Seven.
This species is a threat.
of sending an away team,
But despite the risk
who we're dealing with now.
we know a lot more about
You were correct, Captain.
It was worth the risk...
this time.
one question remaining.
So, there's
Who's hunting the hunters?
I was trying to remove
his body armor
internal injuries,
to treat the
regained consciousness.
when he suddenly
he's not happy to be here.
Needless to say,
Can you sedate him?
I've already tried.
neutralizes everything.
His immune system
a more potent compound,
I could synthesize
but that would take hours.
He could be dead by then.
His wounds are severe.
Your crewmate is dead...
and your ship has been damaged
beyond repair.
to treat your injuries.
I brought you here
What happened
to your ship?
Who attacked you?
I met your species,
The first time
on the best of terms,
it wasn't
but that doesn't mean
you and I
can't find a way
to change that.
Our prey.
You were on a hunt.
Yes.
A formidable alien.
We captured it two days ago,
but it broke free
of its restraints...
attacked us.
Release me.
I must continue the hunt.
and not in this condition.
Not without your ship
without treatment.
You'll die
Let us help you.
Doctor?
All right...
the force field now
I'm going to enter
and start with a few scans
of your midsection.
You should know I'm a hologram
spindled or mutilated
and can't be bent,
so don't bother trying.
Hmm.
Please lie down.
Or remain standing.
Captain, we've detected
six more Hirogen ships.
They're converging on us
from all directions.
The one in Sick Bay
may have sent a distress call
from his vessel.
How long do we have?
is half a light-year away--
The nearest ship
four hours at most.
their approach pattern.
Tom, analyze
Evade them as long as you can.
Yes, ma'am.
I want to buy the doctor enough
time to treat our hunter.
If I can gain his confidence,
he might call off his friends.
Good old-fashioned diplomacy
could get us out of this yet.
Don't count on it.
From what I found
in their database,
diplomacy isn't a part
of their lifestyle.
They don't see us as equals.
To them, we're simply game.
we convince them otherwise--
It's time
animal, we'll show our teeth.
or like any other cornered
a hull rupture
There's been
TUVOK:
on Deck 11, Section 3.
Damage is minor.
a plasma conduit overloaded.
It appears
Increase power to the structural
integrity field.
( rumble )
A bulkhead has collapsed
in Jefferies Tube 84.
Another overload?
The plasma network is stable.
Negative.
KIM:
power surge or system failure.
This wasn't caused by any
Harry, Tuvok, get to Deck 11
and check it out.
This was no overload.
Indeed.
Commander.
It's a dense mixture of DNA
and polyfluidic compounds.
Tuvok to Bridge.
JANEWAY:
Go ahead.
an intruder on board.
We may have
I'm analyzing what could be
a sample of its blood.
The readings are consistent
with Species 8472.
Intruder alert.
Bridge to Security.
Seal off Decks 10 through 12.
aren't detecting any intruders.
Internal sensors
we ran into this species,
The last time
it was impervious
to our scanners.
We'll have to track it visually.
past our shields?
How did it get
We'll worry about that later.
You have the Bridge, Commander.
I'll be on Deck 11.
I've erected a level-10 force
field around Engineering.
secondary force fields
Good. Set up
Jefferies tube and conduit
around every hatch,
leading into this room.
of these consoles secured--
I want every one
command codes only.
authorized
I'm going to lock down
the warp core.
the dilithium matrix
Ensign, realign
to a frequency of 3.69.
( hissing )
( snarling )
Report.
wounded, two seriously.
Four crew members are
Get them to Sick Bay.
accessed Engineering
Species 8472
through the antimatter
injector port.
was insufficient.
Our phaser fire
It attacked us,
then escaped
through Jefferies
Tube 17-Alpha.
Janeway to Tuvok.
Tuvok here.
just left Engineering.
The intruder
Seal off the area.
Understood.
Secure the warp core.
Yes, Captain.
Seven.
that the Hirogen
It would seem
their latest prey.
underestimated
You believe they were
hunting the creature.
were fighting Species 8472,
Yes. When the Borg
did they ever engage
in physical combat?
On many occasions.
Can you recall anything
that might help us here?
Each time they boarded
a Borg vessel,
the central power matrix
they went directly to
and disabled it.
The creature was just
in Engineering.
of our power systems.
Didn't touch any
It's obviously adjusted
its strategy.
Species 8472 is devious
and highly intelligent.
It will seek the most efficient
means of destroying us.
Let's get to Sick Bay.
just fine, Captain.
She's going to be
DOCTOR:
Is it alone?
any others like it?
Have you seen
Why?
this species invaded our galaxy
Six months ago,
with thousands of ships.
We were barely able
to fight them off.
Your prey could indicate
another invasion.
we're all in trouble.
If it does,
How many ships
have you seen?
Only one. Damaged.
across 50 light-years.
We tracked it
We thought that we had
killed the creature,
but this prey is
unlike any other.
It has many lives.
and I will finish the hunt.
Lower the force field
Your attempt to destroy
it will fail.
resistant to all technology.
Species 8472 is highly
Borg nanoprobes.
All but one...
"Nanoprobes"?
weapons that can
Microscopic
CHAKOTAY:
on a cellular level.
attack the species
We've tried it before
and it worked.
the phaser rifles
I'll modify
SEVEN:
to fire nanoprobe discharges.
I want you to incapacitate
the creature, not kill it.
that modification?
Can you make
require additional time.
Yes, but it would
as soon as possible.
We must stop it
She's right.
Not until we know
why it returned.
this crew to unnecessary risk.
You will be exposing
I disagree.
Captain...
You have your orders,
Seven.
Six of your vessels will be here
in under four hours.
I hope you'll let them know
that we saved your life
and we want to avoid any further
conflict with your people.
and I will grant your request.
Let me resume the hunt,
We have enough problems
on this ship as it is
without him running around.
I spent six months studying
this prey's behavior.
I know how to track him.
Let me continue
or I will have the others
destroy you.
Tuvok to Janeway.
Go ahead.
We're holding position
in Section 94,
but the creature has accessed
the environmental controls.
Deck 11 is losing life support.
Artificial gravity has also
been compromised.
Evacuate the deck.
Regroup on Deck 10.
Aye, Captain.
barricade himself.
He's trying to
He did the same thing to us.
part of the hunt?
You want to be
Now's your chance.
your supervision, Commander.
He'll be under
If he steps out of
line, shoot him.
My weapon.
Temperature gradient.
CHAKOTAY:
Affirmative.
PARIS:
Atmospheric recyclers.
Engaged.
Is your body armor
designed to handle
rapid pressure
fluctuations?
hostile environments.
It can defeat most
a silicon-based life-form
I once tracked
through the neutronium mantle
of a collapsed star.
through Jefferies Tube 32.
I once tracked a mouse
Chakotay to Tuvok.
We're ready to go.
As are we.
Proceed to Deck 11.
Keep your com links open.
Understood. Activate
the nanoprobe charges.
Level five should be sufficient
to stun the creature.
Depressurizing hatch.
Magnetize.
Maintain your position.
He's here.
I said maintain
your position.
This is my hunt.
I'm at point.
My knowledge of this prey
is superior to yours.
unfamiliar terrain.
But you're on
I know this ship.
You don't.
The prey will likely attack
the man at point.
You would not survive.
I'll take that chance.
Now, fall back.
No problem.
I'll take up the rear.
You missed.
Since Species 8472
invaded the ship,
increasingly agitated.
you've become
They were the only species
to offer true resistance
to the Borg.
millions of drones,
They destroyed
hundreds of our worlds.
I have reason to be agitated.
What is it?
PARIS:
It's blood.
The prey is wounded.
about 20 meters ahead.
This corridor ends
The only thing down there
is Deflector Control.
It's got nowhere to run.
He is not planning to run.
He is waiting.
He'll attempt to slip around us,
attack from behind.
Chakotay to Tuvok.
Tuvok here.
the intruder in Section 59.
We've cornered
On our way.
( moaning snarl )
It's hurt.
This prey is resilient.
with his dying breath.
He will strike
We must kill him now.
That may not
be necessary.
Hold your fire.
I said lower
your weapon!
( grunts )
( yells )
( squealing cries )
( gasps )
( weak snarling )
Mr. Neelix, I must ask you
to exchange your spatula
for a phaser rifle.
Sir?
two intruders onboard
We have
and six Hirogen vessels
on the way.
security personnel.
I need additional
Right away, sir.
What's my assignment?
Join the security detail
on Deck 10, Section 12.
further instructions there.
You'll receive
I'll expect tactical updates
every 20 min...
( gasping )
Lieutenant?
Are you all right?
You have your orders.
Report.
back in Sick Bay
The Hirogen's
within a force field.
And Species 8472?
a security perimeter.
We've established
Basically, we've turned this
entire section into a brig.
have B'Elanna start working
As an added precaution,
to lock onto the creature,
on a way
in case we have to beam it
off the ship.
You mentioned it was injured.
In what way?
I wish I could tell
you for certain.
Its body is generating
some sort bioelectric field
making it impossible
to scan,
so I could only make
a visual diagnosis.
It's conscious
but immobile.
Its epidermis displays
any number of injuries--
punctures, energy burns--
and its demeanor is that
of a wounded animal.
chasing it for several months.
The Hirogen said they'd been
Is there anything
you can do?
I don't know enough
about its physiology
the surface wounds,
to treat
any internal damage.
let alone
Frankly, I'm at a loss.
before we cornered it,
Captain, just
Species 8472 accessed deflector
control from this panel.
the transmission protocols.
I've analyzed
a singularity into its realm,
It was attempting to open
but it failed.
It was trying
to get home.
That's what it looks like.
( weak snarling moan )
Tuvok?
The creature
initiated telepathic
contact with me.
What's it saying?
Its ship was damaged during
the conflict with the Borg.
of its species retreated
When the other members
into fluidic space...
it was left behind.
Delta Quadrant ever since...
It has been trapped in the
alone...
by Hirogen hunting parties.
pursued
for further conflict.
It has no desire
It only wants to return
to its domain.
It is dying,
Captain.
You have nothing
to be afraid of.
We're going to help you
get back to your realm.
understand?
Does it
It does.
take time
It will
to open a singularity,
of treating your injuries,
and we have no way
you can tell us about your...
but if there's anything
( snarling groans )
consciousness.
It has lost
Our telepathic link
has been severed.
Where is my prey?
Lying at the end
of a corridor
on Deck 11...
nearly dead thanks to you.
Take me to it.
No.
Take me to it!
In less than three hours,
your ships will arrive.
will no longer be on Voyager.
By that time, Species 8472
What do you mean?
I'm sending it back
where it came from.
Surrender the creature to me
and you will not be harmed.
This isn't a hunt;
it's a slaughter.
And I'm calling it off
right now.
We will not be denied our prey.
Give us the creature....
will take its place.
or your crew
Tuvok?
report to my ready room.
Have Seven of Nine
You intend to ask her
into 8472's realm.
to open a rift
on board who knows how.
She's the only one
Given her feelings
toward the species,
she may not want
to cooperate.
We'll see.
You wish to see me,
Captain?
I've made a decision
about Species 8472.
I'm going to return it
to fluidic space.
In order to do that, I need you
to open a quantum singularity.
a prudent course of action.
I don't believe that is
I realize it may be
difficult for you to help
save this creature's life,
is learning to have compassion
but part of becoming human
for those who are suffering,
your bitter enemies.
even when they're
Why?
when I was a Lieutenant.
I remember
a Cardassian border conflict.
It was during
My away team was cut off
while we were defending
a Federation outpost.
We'd been exchanging
phaser fire
with a group of Cardassians
for about three days--
a stalemate.
a break in the fighting...
One night, during
this low moaning sound
we could hear
coming from somewhere
in the brush.
our people were out there,
We knew that none of
a wounded Cardassian.
so it had to be
Well, you have to understand--
we'd been killing each other
for weeks on this planet.
It was brutal.
But our commanding officer
decided...
that we couldn't just sit there
to that poor man suffer.
and listen
So he ordered me
and an Ensign...
to crawl out there
and bring that Cardassian
back to our camp.
I thought he was crazy.
He was risking our lives
for someone
who would have shot us
without hesitation.
But we did it...
and the Cardassian lived.
we secured the outpost.
Three days later,
It was a major victory.
We were all decorated
by Starfleet Command,
but in retrospect...
the thing I'm most proud of
was the night we saved
that man's life.
Explain.
A single act of compassion
with your own humanity.
can put you in touch
You are trying to justify
your present decision.
No.
this as an opportunity to grow.
I'm trying to help you see
I know you don't want
to do it, Seven,
but I'm telling you
as your Captain
and as your friend,
you won't regret it.
No.
tactically unsound.
Your decision is
We will be surrounded
by Hirogen ships
in approximately two hours.
If we do not surrender
the creature,
they will destroy us.
A lesson in compassion
will do me little good
if I am dead.
It is wrong to sacrifice
another being
to save our own lives.
I have observed that
you have been willing
to save the lives of your crew.
to sacrifice your own life
Yes, but that's different.
That was my choice.
does not have a choice.
This creature
It invaded our ship,
put our lives at risk
to save its own.
In my view, it has already
forfeited its freedom.
I'm giving you an order.
Report to Deflector Control
on creating a singularity.
and begin working
I will not comply.
to remain on Voyager.
I have agreed
I have agreed to function
but I will not be a willing
as a member of your crew,
in my own destruction
participant
or the destruction of this ship.
Objection noted.
We'll do this without you.
You will fail.
And you have just
crossed the line.
End of debate.
Report to the cargo bay
and remain there
until this is over.
Is that understood?
Shields down to 84 percent.
Return fire.
Three more ships are closing
from port and starboard.
All escape trajectories
have been cut off.
Our weapons are having little
effect on their hull plating.
I'm scanning for weaknesses
in the molecular structure.
Shields at 79 percent.
They are hailing us.
TUVOK:
Better late than never.
Open a channel.
and one of our hunters.
You've taken our prey
Surrender them.
and we'll return your crewman.
Call off your attack
it's under our protection now.
As for your prey,
It belongs to us.
It belongs to no one.
Now, order your ships
to withdraw
and this can end peacefully.
All vessels are firing.
crack in their armor?
Any luck finding a
Not yet.
Doctor to Bridge.
appears to be regenerating.
Species 8472
I'm no exobiologist,
is becoming highly agitated.
but I'd say this fellow
It could be sensing
the Hirogen attack.
Doctor, can you sedate it?
I believe so,
but I'll need another dose
of Borg nanoprobes.
Stand by.
Bridge to Seven of Nine.
Yes.
Report to Deck 11 immediately
with a supply of nanoprobes.
Understood.
B'Elanna, how's it going
down there?
Transporters are ready.
on the creature at any time,
I can establish a lock
but I still haven't duplicated
the deflector protocols
to open a singularity.
How long?
I need another hour...
maybe two.
Captain, we can outmaneuver
the Hirogen ships
for a few more minutes,
but beyond that...
to the EPS manifold!
Direct hit
Main power just went down!
Force fields on all decks
are off-line.
Switch to auxiliary power.
have been restored,
Done. Force fields
how long they'll hold.
but I don't know
Bridge to doctor.
Report.
It's all right, Captain.
The creature is contained.
Bridge to Sick Bay.
Security respond.
dispatch teams to Deck 5.
Security,
The Hirogen may be loose.
to our port nacelle.
Direct hit
Now, they've taken out
our starboard nacelle.
They've crippled us.
Tuvok, divert warp power
to the phaser banks.
Maybe that'll help us
penetrate their
hull plating.
The nanoprobes?
Armed and ready.
Not a moment too soon.
( groaning )
Give me the prey.
or I will destroy you.
Lower your weapon
I don't think you will.
You want me to destroy
this creature.
earlier in the medical bay.
I saw it on your face
It's a look I've seen
a thousand times.
Stand aside.
( snarling fiercely )
What are you doing?
Captain, someone's accessing
the transporter system
from Deck 5.
Lock them out.
I can't.
They're overriding
my commands...
with Borg encryption codes.
Report, Mr. Kim.
JANEWAY:
8472 and the Hirogen...
they've been beamed to one
of the attacking ships.
All six vessels are moving away
at high warp.
Tom, can we pursue?
I'm sorry, Captain.
are still off-line.
Warp engines
previous course.
Resume our
Full impulse.
Seven of Nine?
Seven of Nine.
Stardate 51652.3.
Captain's Log,
It's been 12 hours
and our sensors show no sign
of any Hirogen vessels,
but their people are scattered
throughout this region
and something tells me
Voyager is far from over.
that the "hunt" for
Captain.
Step down, please.
Seven, you disobeyed
my direct orders
and as a result,
you condemned a sentient
being to its death.
By doing so, I also diverted
the Hirogen attack,
would have destroyed us.
an attack which
Maybe not.
In any case, the decision
wasn't yours to make.
The creature broke the force
field. I had no choice.
I didn't come here to
debate your decision.
I came here to inform you
of the consequences.
came to Voyager,
When you first
I decided to grant you
the same liberties
and freedoms of any crew member
be a part of this family.
because I wanted you to
to accommodate your...
And I've been willing
unique way of doing things--
somebody the wrong way
even when you rubbed
or violated protocol.
I can't accommodate you.
But this time,
you will no longer have access
From this point forward,
to any primary systems
on this ship--
direct authorization.
not without my
If you attempt
to circumvent me,
I'll throw you in the brig.
I still need your expertise
Lab if you're willing.
in the Astrometrics
If not, you can spend your
time here in the cargo bay.
Is that understood?
Yes.
It is puzzling.
What's that?
You made me into an individual.
You encouraged me
to stop thinking
like a member of the collective,
to cultivate my independence
and my humanity.
But when I try to assert that
independence, I am punished.
Individuality has its limits...
especially on a starship where
there's a command structure.
that you are punishing me
I believe
because I do not think
the way that you do,
because I am not becoming
more like you.
You claim to respect
my individuality,
you are frightened by it.
but in fact,
As you were.